Idea for my school: 

I envision myself as both the chief administrator (because I need deciding authority) and a teacher.

My vision: A school in a rural area. A school which allows a student to explore a variety of subjects: science, maths, history, geography, 
economics or commercial education including practical and mathematical training, music or other fine arts, physical sports, 
workshop abilities (carpentry, plumbing, etc.), agriculture/horticulture.
Whatever the topic they choose, they have to train themselves to excel in it without any lackadaisical attitude. They will also work on 
gaining all necessary life skills and existentially necessary knowledge reserves (history to know where you came from, math and basic sciences 
to live and be logical, geography to know where you are, economics so that you are not conned, languages so that you can speak up for yourself, 
etc.). If the student's aptitude is aligned in a particular field (academic, art, or other), that will certainly be encouraged and trained. 
However, the student will have to also gain a rounded holistic basic education and will not be excused because of their excellence in one field. 
I strongly feel that this will help the student be more aware and truly educated.

They will initially receive opportunity to try out projects in every subject of interest. Also there will be regular open days 
in each department where they will be encouraged to get exposure to the different projects being pursued and an exposure to the 
state-of-the-art in that field. Once they choose a topic, they have to work on honing their skills to become the best in what 
they choose. But also keeping an eye out to see what happens in other fields to see if any interesting and novel connections can be made.

This knowledge gain is not aimed at clearing some exam at the end of 10 and 12 years. They will be equipped with much more than that. 
They will not be limited to the books prescribed by the various boards of education. I don't know if it is legally possible, but it would
prove a point if any student training in the school can personally choose which curricular exam they want to qualify at the
appropriate times during their training. This will clearly show them education is not about passing those exams.

I want to run this school such that it evens out any deficiencies that a student from a rural and improverished background may suffer.
So I prefer to have minimal fees if there has to be any fees at all, and will essentially be a token amount recieved to reserve a seat 
in the school. For any class over the kindergarten, there will be entrance tests to join the school. However, exam score does not decide if 
the student can join. But the exam score will decide in what class the student can join irrespective of age or what he has passed prior to 
this test in any other institution. The school would however offer students ("over-aged" for a particular standard) opportunities to rewrite this exam 
multiple times to seek promotion to higher standards. However, the most important goal is to see that the student learns and gains skills, not that 
he passes a certain standard by a certain age. 

However, there will be a screening which both the prospective students and staff will have to go through to join the school compulsorily. 
A panel of experts will judge if the attitude of the candidate is conducive for learning. This is a subjective test but the judgement of the
panel is final. Also, any student or staff will be made to leave if at any point their conduct or attitude becomes detrimental to the 
learning atmosphere. I understand that every student needs an opportunity. But I also see that an opportunity is precious and should be
offered to one who will use it the right way. For instance, 105 brothers got the same exemplary teacher in Dronacharya and an excellent atmosphere. 
However, there was only one Arjun with the correct attitude and focus. So it is only fair to reserve the opportunity to people who yearn to learn.

Skills that need to be definitely inculcated in addition to specialising in a chosen field:
Basic life skills such as (1) basic mathematical ability, (2) to read, write, speak and communicate most efficiently in at least 3 languages 
(one necessarily English), (3) logic and basic scientific knowledge, (4) moral, ethical and cultural education, (5) environmental awareness, 
(6) physical training, basic self-defense (preferably Indian, like silambam, kalaripayittu), (7) basic history of India and social awareness, 
(8) basic legal education and constitution of India, and (9) lessons on the glory of Indian scientific, political and cultural history. 
An exposure to cultures of the west and east will help in taking the good from others, and also help in seeing the good in ours more clearly.
Instilling a deep sense of pride and gratitude towards India and one's own forefathers is very important. 

This requires:
1. Exceptional teachers in each of these subjects who are interested at a research level in their topic of interest 
and also pedagogically oriented. They should have natural inclination to learn, upgrade and adapt themselves constantly.

2. Infrastructure that supports any research vetted by a panel of subject experts from outside the school
(within a reasonable fund limit) that either the faculty or student wishes to carry out should be fully supported.
In the case of fine arts, mechanical workshop, or sport, any project again vetted as viable by an external panel of subject experts
(again within reasonable funds) should be supported. These external experts can be suggested by the faculty/student
but will be selected by a panel nominated by the chief administrator. Any project deemed unsafe or unethical can be vetoed by the 
chief administrator, and therefore has to be submitted for assessment to the chief administrator before it goes out to subject experts.

3. Professionals in each field should be invited on a regular basis to train the faculty and have regular interaction with students.
Their visits should be funded. Also, selected students and faculty (selected on merit basis) should have opportunity to participate in 
industrial exposure/conference/workshops and events like thygaraya utsavam for music, etc.

4. Special attention should be given to encourage students to join national services such as the three divisions of national defense, 
Indian administrative and police services, the intelligence, and other such fields. Army/naval/air-force officers, IAS, IPS, IFS officers
with excellent track records need to be invited regularly to encourage and guide students on how to join these forces and work on 
being the best possible officer. How to join, entrance exam preparations, physical fitness training tips, what surprise elements they 
faced when they trained/joined, etc should be regularly dicussed by each guest. Any student facing any difficulty in sincerely
training for these posts will have the issues addressed and will receive full support and backing. NO limits.

5. All Hindu students will be encouraged to visit the pooja room/small temple (depending on available funds and rules as per our
scriptures) within the school premises. Ram bhajan and nama sankirthanam will happen throughout the day in this Pooja room. I 
strongly feel this will help in making the place of learning tranquil. Regular lectures on moral stories from our epics and upanishads 
for the younger kids and lectures on vedic philosophies and our sastras will also be arranged. All Hindu students will be encouraged 
in the most positive manner possible to attend these lectures. Even if one student gains mental peace and understands the bliss one
achieves in truly surrendering to the parabrahmam at least for a minute, I have reached my life's purpose. 

6. We need teachers who appreciate the importance of "getting" the correct questions (rather than the correct answers).
For instance, history should be not only about when what happened, but what effect an event in a country had world-over. What would have 
happened if such an event did not happen.
For instance, in science, the importance of dimensional analysis in actual physical modelling of an experiment from scratch instead of 
just teaching a law. Making the student arrive at the law without feeding it to him/her. This will teach them how crucial each word is in
the statement of the law. Also, for instance, if a poem is to be taught in any language, asking the student to replace one word for 
another and making them understand how much thought went into the choice.

7. We need to employ teachers who are willing to work 8-8 (12 hours at least), and who sincerely appreciate the weight of 
responsibility on them. Their responsibility towards not only the future of the students but also the future of this nation.
I will personally oversee their appointment especially a round of interview that tests their tenacity of purpose, and their 
willingness to put in their soul towards teaching.

8. Teachers cannot be personally related to any of their students. I realise well that a teacher is always fair and will never bring 
emotions to their work. But when we are in a position of power, it is best to avoid the least bit of controversy that will lend the slightest 
advantage to unnecessary talk. A teacher should lead by exmaple, and as a teacher myself, I want to personally ensure that their fairness shall 
never come into question anywhere. Also, teachers working in my school when they sit in recruitment panels should declare and excuse themselves 
if one of the candidates is related to them in any manner, or should declare explicitly if they have any prior association with them. Also, if they 
are related to anyone personally in the existing faculty, it should be reported and clearly documented. Related persons can't be in a reporting
structure.

9. Teachers should be willing to show the videos of other teachers who explain the concept better to students. They need to realise that each 
class is a learning experience for them too. To avoid monotony, they cannot teach the same standard (same set of lessons) 
for more than two consecutive years. This will keep them exploring newer perspectives from which a topic can be approached and 
can potentially lead to interesting teaching techniques being attempted.

10. Parents also need to appreciate, understand and support each of our teachers in his/her efforts to discipline their charge. 
Yearly parent-teacher meetings (in the absence of students) will be held where we shall emphasize 
(a) how the teachers play a pivotal role in shaping a child's future, and 
(b) how the teacher's inaction when the child requires correction is inadmissable as it is only detrimental to the child's well-being. 
Also, at the same time, having regular PRIVATE sessions with the teachers to emphasize fair behaviour, is also important 
for correct administration. However, it is imperative that these are private sessions with the teachers as the student's respect for 
the teacher should never be shaken even by the slightest amount. A student should hold his teacher with the highest regard possible
as it is very important for the student to grow.

11.


Resources to get my history correct:
1. Dharmapal's books
2. Sound bites curated by Dr Vikram Sampath: https://soundcloud.com/archive-of-indian-music
3. Vir Savarkar - Dr Vikram Sampath
4. Bravehearts of India - Dr Vikram Sampath
5. India that is Bharat - J Sai Deepak
6. The Ocean of Churn - Sanjeev Sanyal
7. A new idea of India - Harsh Madhusudan & Rajeev Mantri
8. The man who saved India Sardar Patel - Hindol Sengupta
9. Brainwashed Republic - Neeraj Atri and Munieshwar A Sagar
10. Arun Shorie's books
11. Gurumoorthy's writings
12. Thuglak compilations.


